Welcome back.
In the last video I installed code light on Windows and I created a shortcut icon on my desktop right
here.
So if I double click that, that's going to open up and run code light and the first time you run it,
you're going to get a setup wizard.
It's going to look something like this.
It says, Welcome to the setup wizard.
You can bypass the setup wizard, but let's run it and we'll select next.
And we'll select C plus plus development.
Select next.
Again.
Now, in this step you can scan for compilers.
And the idea here is we've got a compiler installed on our system.
Code light needs to configure itself to work with that compiler.
So we'll select scan.
Most of the time it will not find it.
And in this case.
It did not find it.
Okay?
Just I expected.
Do you want to install one?
It thinks we don't have one yet, so don't install anything.
Just close this up and we'll manually configure it in a moment.
Don't worry about what shows here.
I've got the Microsoft C plus plus compiler installed as well, along with the GNU G plus plus compiler.
So most likely you're only going to see Rust.
So just click next.
Here we select the colors that we want for our interface.
Normally I will work in dark.
I'm just going to select system default because I think that the light actually I'm going to select
light because I think that the light shows up a lot better on video than the dark.
So I'm going to select next.
I'll just press finish now.
Don't change any of these settings and code light is going to close up and restart.
And that's it.
So let me make this a little bigger and show you what's going on here.
We've got our menu at the top.
And over here on the left, we've got a workspace view.
In the workspace view is where we see our workspace.
And our workspace can consist of many projects, which is really great because we can have a workspace,
for example, for Section six and have all the projects related to Section six in here.
Or you can have a workspace named anything you want.
Maybe you're learning about pointers and you want to create a workspace called pointers and then having
projects within that workspace all about pointers.
Once you have workspaces, they'll be available down here.
Recently opened workspaces.
Now, obviously I've just installed this, so I've got nothing in here, so that's a real easy way to
pick previously used workspaces.
And then you see this right over here where it says, open an existing workspace, create a new workspace
and so forth.
And we'll be using those in just a moment.
But before we do anything, we need to set up and configure our compiler here.
So let's do that.
I'm going to go up here to Settings and then I'm going to press build settings.
And there you can see those three items that we saw a little while ago during our build.
Now, at this point, I want to click that blue plus symbol right here on some versions.
I think it's the Linux version of the Mac version.
That's a green plus, but in this case, it's a blue plus.
So I want to make sure I'm on that compilers tab right up here and I'm going to click that.
Plus it says Add an existing compiler.
So I'm going to click it now.
I'm going to go to where I installed my compiler and I installed it on my C drive in the min GW folder
right there.
And I want to select the bin.
That's the path that I want.
That's where all my binaries are, the executable files for the compiler and I'm going to select folder.
At this point it's asking us to name the compiler.
I'm going to name it Min GW.
Just like that, I encourage you to do the same.
Select okay.
And now code Light has set up the compiler.
You can see it's set up the compiler path, the assembler paths and all this good stuff.
And a good sanity check is to look through here, make sure that you've got MinGW w64 bin because that's
where all this stuff is.
And once we're done with that, we can click okay, great.
Now we're in a position where we can start writing code, creating workspaces, creating projects and
so forth.
So let's go through those steps.
There's still a little bit more configuration, but not a lot more.
So what we can do here is we don't have any workspaces yet, so we can create a new workspace.
I can click over here on this big button over here on the right, or I can go up to workspace new workspace.
And I think you can even do a file new workspace.
Yep.
Right there.
So there's a lot of different ways to do it.
I'm just going to click on this big button because it's pretty easy.
Now it's asking us what type of workspace do we want?
We want a C plus plus workspace.
So make sure you select C plus plus.
Click.
Okay.
So now it's asking us, where do you want to store this workspace?
So here you've got a lot of choices.
You can store this wherever you like, sort of do not install this on cloud drives.
Do not install workspaces on folders with really weird names.
And the other thing I would recommend is not to install it on your desktop or your documents.
I used to do that all the time and it worked great.
But more and more we have systems that are using one drive and one drive is managing the desktop and
the documents folders and it's putting them somewhere else where they normally aren't.
So what I would recommend is that we go right in here, right in our users and whatever your user name
is, my name is Mitro.
In this example, that's going to be your own username.
What I encourage you to do is just click those three little buttons here and right now I'm in the home
folder and right in here I want to create a new folder and I'm just going to call this workspaces.
Just like that.
And I'm going to select that.
So my workspace path is my home directory, my users username folder, and I want to create a new workspace.
So let's call this workspace one.
We can call it whatever we want.
We can call it, you know, this week's workspace, whatever we like.
Now, what's something that's very, very important?
Do not put spaces anywhere.
Do not use special characters.
Just keep it really, really, really simple.
No international characters.
No spaces, No special characters.
Just keep it plain and simple.
These build tools are really, really picky about that.
So that's my workspace.
Make sure that create the workspace under a separate directory is checked and click okay.
Now you can see over here on the left that we've got a new workspace that's been created and that's
great.
That's exactly what we want.
But we need projects within that workspace and the projects themselves are each going to be a C plus
plus program.
So how do you think we create a project?
Real easy.
Click on your workspace and you can come up to file new project or we can right click on the workspace
and create a new project.
That's what I'm going to do.
Now we're going to get a new project Wizard.
Notice the path is the workspace one that we created.
Now it's asking us, what's the name of your project?
I'm just going to call it Project One.
Remember, we can have as many projects as we like within that workspace.
Make sure create the project in its own folder is checked and these are really important settings here.
What's the category?
We want to build a console based application.
That's an application that runs in a console window, a command prompt window.
We're not doing graphical user interfaces.
That would be a whole different course.
The type is going to be simple executable, G plus plus.
Now it's asking us what compiler did we install?
Well, we installed the min GW compiler.
That's the one that we installed a minute ago and named it.
So I'm going to select that for debugger.
You can choose the new GDB debugger.
And now for the build system, this is where the developer that created code light really changed things
up In 17.34 years.
There has been a default build system in here that worked great.
He got rid of the default build system.
I don't know why, but he did.
So we have to work without that now.
And what we're going to choose is code light make file generator.
So let me click those again and it should just be there when you start.
But just to be sure, you've got a couple of options here.
Code light make file generator is what we want.
So that's the one I'm going to choose and I'm going to click.
Okay.
Now we've got a project over here.
It's got a source folder.
That's where we're going to put our source code and it's got a main.cpp file.
The Main.cpp file is our C plus plus source code, and the name of the file is Main.cpp.
So let me double click that and that's going to open it up here in my editor.
This is where I can change my program, add code and so forth.
I'm going to go to my settings for a minute and I'm going to go to my colors and fonts and I'm just
going to make this font a little bit bigger just so it's easier for you all to see.
You don't have to do this, but I think it's going to make a big difference here.
There we go.
So now what we're going to do is we're just going to get rid of all this because that's really c-like
code.
Now, you'll notice what happened when I got rid of that.
You'll notice that red dot that came right up here.
That means that whatever changes I've made to this file have not saved.
So we can save what we've done by just going to file, save, file or control s on windows.
It's really important that we always save before we try to build and run anything.
So in this case, let's start writing a real simple Hello world program.
First thing we're going to do is pound include and we're going to say i o stream inside angle brackets.
Then I'm going to type using namespace STD followed by a semicolon.
At this point, just type along and follow along.
All this is going to be explained in the course and now we need to write a main function.
This is the place where our program is going to begin executing, so we're going to type in int space
main left, n right per N, Then we're going to have a left curly brace.
And you'll notice when I press enter code light automatically closed that for me.
So it's using those smart braces, which is really, really handy.
And in here all we're going to say is C out.
Two less than signs or left angle brackets.
Side by side with no space between them.
Make sure there is a space between see out and those angle brackets.
Then again, another space.
And then I'm going to type Hello world in double quotes, just like that.
Then I'm going to follow that with two more left angle brackets or two less than signs followed by the
word E and L, not E and one, but E and DL.
Now you'll notice, as I was typing, code light was helping me.
It's got code completion, so it's helping me and I'm just going to indent this so it all lines up nicely.
It's trying to figure out what I want to type next and helping me out so I can just press tab and I
don't have to type it all in.
So in this case, we have one more statement to write.
It's going to be return.
And you can see when I type RET, it's giving me the return so I can just press tab and it'll finish
it for me.
Returns zero with a space between the return of the zero and a semicolon.
That's it.
This is our first program.
Why do we write a Hello World program?
Well, it's become the norm, and the reason we do it is if we see Hello World display when we run this,
we know that our development environment has been set up correctly and it's a pretty easy way to do
it.
Now you'll notice I am still red here.
So I want to press Ctrl s or file save.
I'm going to press Ctrl s and that has now changed to that little X there.
Now you'll notice these red arrows popping up.
Don't worry about those.
Those will go away in a second when we do the build.
But before we do the build, we need to configure our compiler.
So what we can do is remember, it's possible that we have a lot of projects in here.
There's only going to be one active project at a time, and that's the one that's bold and italicized,
and there's only one right now, but you can see it right here.
You can always right click on that and make it active.
And by double clicking on it, you can choose which project you want to build.
Again, we can have 2030 projects, just double click them.
That's the one we want.
So let's configure this project.
So make sure that you've selected Project one.
Then I'm going to come up to this wrench icon right here that gives us our project settings.
You can also right click and come down to settings.
You can see the wrench icon there.
So again, I'm going to just click that icon and now we get this Project Settings menu.
I know this looks like a lot to do right now and it is in a sense, but in a while we won't have to
do any of this because we're going to create a template project that we can create new projects from.
And I'll do that in a couple of videos from now, which makes it really, really easy to do.
So what do we have here?
This is some of the options that I selected in that new project Wizard.
There's the code like make file generator, the min GW.
So what we want to do here is we want to make one change to this.
We want to delete the working directory right here, the whole thing.
I just want to delete it all and I want to type in dollar and then left per n project path right foreign
just like that.
So you should have a dollar sign a left per n project path and a right closing parenthesis.
Make sure that the two paths in Project path are capitalized.
That's it.
We press tab and you can see it light up like that.
I'm going to apply.
And I'm going to select.
Okay.
Now, that basically set up our environment.
Now what we want to do is we want to set up the compiler option.
So again, I can do I didn't have to leave that one.
Okay.
But you can just open it again.
And now we're going to select the compiler right up here.
You can see I've got a C plus plus compiler and a C compiler.
We're only working with the C plus plus compiler, so I want to set some options for that.
You can see there's already a few options set here.
Dwarf and capital O and a wall and all that explained as the course goes on.
So click here and you'll see these three little dots that pop up right here in a button.
So we're going to select that.
And now we've got a whole bunch of options that we can select from.
We're only going to select one more, and that's that one right here.
Enable C plus plus 17 features.
There's two of them, but make sure you select the one that says Dash stood equals C plus plus 17.
And you can see down here in the command line, those are the commands that are going to be used by
the compiler to build the program.
Now I'm going to select okay, apply.
Okay, now we're done.
Now what we can do is we can build and run this program.
So how do we do that?
Make sure that your project you want to run is the active project again, In this case, there's only
one project we can come up to build.
We can do a build.
There's a lot of options here that I'll explain as we go, but we can select Rebuild project and we
get the output window come up down here.
Let me just move this up a little bit.
This is the build output right here.
And you can see that it's successfully has created a program, which is pretty cool.
Now what we can do is we can run this program.
So let me close that and I'm going to select, build, Run, and it's going to ask me, do you want
to build it and execute it or just execute it?
I just want to execute it because I've already built it.
A window pops up and it says Hello world.
This tells you that your build environment is set up, your compiler is set up, everything is working.
Everything looks good.
Now all we displayed was Hello world.
The rest of the stuff is displayed by code light.
It tells you that your program exited with an exit code of zero.
That is a good thing.
An exit code of zero means that your program ran successfully.
That's basically what we're returning that zero right here for.
And again, we'll explain all this as we go.
Right now, we're just trying to get the environment set up.
We're displaying Hello World.
We're returning that zero.
Everything worked.
There was no other error.
How much time did the program take to run?
There you see it.
And then it says Press Any key to continue.
And if I press enter, the window goes away.
So that's it.
We've built our first program.
It was pretty easy.
I think it's just a matter of setting these little steps up.
So let me create another project and I'm going to use this same source code and I'm just going to copy
that so I don't have to type it in.
Again, I'm just using Ctrl C and I can close this window down here just to reduce some of the clutter.
So what do I want to do now?
Well, I want to click on the workspace, right click new project.
And my project name is Project two.
I'm going to remember the life settings.
So it's a console based program.
It's simple executable min GW the GNU debugger and code light Makefile generator.
I'll select.
Okay.
Once that's done, I've got my main and notice I've got two mains now.
Right?
Project one has a main which is this one and project two has a main which is this one.
So I'm just going to get rid of this and copy what I did and I'm going to say Hello world from Project
two like that.
Notice that's red up here, so I want to save it.
You'll notice Project one is the active project.
You see how it's bold and italicized.
I can just double click on Project two and now Project two is the one that's bold and italicized right
there.
So it's the active project.
So when I build and run, Project two is the one that's going to be affected.
So I'm going to click the wrench again.
And I'm going to go up to my general options.
I'm going to get rid of this.
And again, as I said, we're not going to have to do this every time, but we're just going to do it
this time.
I'm going to create Project Path.
Be real careful here.
I didn't put a capital P and it must be a capital P just like that.
Then I'm going to get my compiler.
And I'm going to come right over here and I'm going to add these two equals C plus plus 17.
Just like that.
You might want to select the linker and type static.
That's up to you.
I would recommend you do so because it's going to avoid problems with finding DLLs and Windows and so
forth.
So all you have to do is just click on the linker options and type static or hyphen static, all one
word, no spaces.
We'll click apply, we'll click okay and that's it.
We're ready to build.
So now I'm going to go to build.
Rebuild project.
There we go.
We have a clean build.
And if we run, it's going to say hello from project to.
And that's exactly what we see here.
Hello world.
From project to.
Pretty good.
All right.
So.
If you have build errors, it's possible we get build errors every day.
Right?
So here's an example.
I spelled this wrong instead of i o stream, I wrote i o stream and now these red arrows are coming
back up saying i o stream file not found and so forth.
So these things kind of help you before we build to let us know something's not right.
But if I do try to build my project, you see I'm going to get errors here.
It's going to go IO stream and it's going to say no such file or directory.
It's kind of telling you something's not right and we've got an error message down here.
The build ended with errors.
So when that happens, we know we've got a problem.
If you run into things like this, they're usually pretty easy fixes.
A lot of times they're just typos, right?
So if I put that back in and build, we'll be good to go.
But if you post something on the Q and A about it, and I'll say rebuild your project and show me the
build output, this is what I want to see down here.
So we've got several tabs here.
So you would just click the build tab and copy and paste all this stuff or give me a screenshot and
I can really help you with that.
Similarly, if we let me close this, we get a new one.
If I forgot that semicolon semicolons are really important.
You can see that little red arrow is popping up saying, Hey, I expected a semicolon somewhere right
after here, but if I do build.
Again, I'm going to get an error right there.
It's pointing at it.
It says, hey, I'm expecting a semicolon.
We can't run our program until we get a clean build so I can put the semicolon back in.
And as you can imagine, there's a lot of places to make mistakes.
Right?
I spell Main wrong.
I forget one of these quotes here.
We have to close them up a whole bunch of places.
I forget this closing curly.
So there are a lot of places where things can go wrong.
But once you have this environment set up and you've got a build, we're good to go.
We can proceed and we can write code in the course.
Now, the last thing I'd like you to do is come up to Settings preferences and come over here to where
it says miscellaneous and it says check for new version on startup and just unclick that otherwise it's
going to really pester you a lot saying hey, there's a new version of code light out there.
Resist the urge to download and install new versions.
New versions often come with bugs, often come with a lot of changes.
Once you have your development environment set up for this course, just leave it alone.
Use it that way for the whole course and you're not going to have any trouble.
Don't just keep updating it every point release because that's that's just asking for trouble and for
misconfiguration errors.
Okay.
So I'm going to click apply and.
And we're pretty much done.
So if you've gotten this far and you've got your build system all set up, congratulations, we're good
to go.
Next step is to head over to the video where I'm going to show you how to set up a project template
so that you don't have to go through all the stuff that I just went through.
We only have to do it once.
And then from that point forward, we just create a new project based on an existing project and all
of this project path and all of this compiler stuff and all of this linker stuff is going to be done
for us automatically so we don't have to do that again.
All right.
So I'll see you in that video.